goal:1000 words 

# DE MENOR: MINIMUM AGE OF CRIMINAL RESPONSABILITY AROUND THE GLOBE

Brazil’s congress is currently reviewing a proposed constitutional amendment that would reduce the minimum age of criminal responsibility (MACR) from 18 to 16. This has been a delicate topic over the last 20 years for both leftist and rightwing parties, but now it’s been lulled by a controversial hardliner lower house’s speaker, who happens to be part of the government coalition, but actually plays as the most tireless oppositor. 
After contentious meetings, last week, the special committee tasked with making a recommendation approved the age reduction, and that the amendment is now gaining momentum in the legislature. If congress maintains the bill, 16-year-olds would be tried as adults, instead of as juveniles, in a court of law. Currently, the maximum legal punishment for someone ages 12-18 is three years’ internment in a juvenile socio-educative detention centre. Far more than a simply defeat for the government, particularly for ruling Worker’s Party, this episode may be just one among many other socially conservative measures the rightwing coalition--named by some as the ‘bullets, beef and bible’ caucus--wants to push through.

Although the press has framed the issue as an arm wrestling competition between a increasingly weak government by the country’s economic downturn and ongoing corruption scandals and an energized opposition, the amendment has nonetheless generated serious contention among Brazil’s increasingly polarized political elites. For opponents, such a law change may only exacerbate the complex problem of juvenile criminality in one of the world’s most dynamic and unequal societies, supporters, on the contrary, believe it’s a possible solution to the country’s rising crime rates. However, very few evidence has been provided for comparative purposes. The debates are usually stuffed with normative views from both sides and very few data numbers are shown on the table. How other countries regulate this topic? 

The matter has appeared several times in the press, public opinion was also consulted, but very few discussion was carried out how the world deals with the issue, and why? It seems that the press is more interested on the dispute between government and opposition on the topic than adding some information for the public opinion. I spent some time gathering data on this issue, so I hope to present some comparative evidence.

The main concern I’ve is they’re treating the change in the law without showing much convincing arguments, either for supporting a change or opposing it. I haven’t see much the rulers bringing evidence from other parts of the world about what reducing the age for criminal responsibility can make. So I decide to collect some data on the topic to see what the world looks like on this.

## The Data
First off, the dataset has some complications about what is considered form one country to the other. Also, several places there is no one unique legislation, and rules at other levels may apply or be overlapping. For instance, in the US, there are federal law regulating the matter, but also state laws. In 33 sates there is no limit of age for a child be tried for a committed crime. In UK, for instance, while in Ireland and Wales a child can be inputed criminal responsibilities starting at 10 years old, in Scottland, only at 12. Also, there place like in North Ireland and XX, where the minimum age to be tried  for every crime is 16, but 14 for some kinds of crimes. In those cases, I assumed the lower age for criminal responsibility was 14, though the overall age was 16. Still other countries stipulate different ages for boys and girls--not that girls get extra years, quite the contrary. In countries like XX and XX, girls can be tried at lower ages than boys, some 2 or 3 year younger.
Northern Ireland.: No child under the age of 10

A Datafolha opinion poll published on Wednesday showed that 87% of Brazilians are in favour of the bill. With such popular and congressional support, Bolsonaro is confident that finally, after almost two decades of trying, he will succeed. “As soon as the law is passed, I will put forward another constitutional amendment, to lower the age to 14,” he said.

Some 87 percent of Brazilians are in favor of lowering the age of criminal responsibility from 18 to 16, according to a survey released Wednesday.

The survey published by Brazil's Datafolha Statistics Institute shows a clear majority of Brazilians agree with a proposed legal amendment put forward by the political opposition that is currently being debated in Congress. Opposition parties say the measure would help cut crime in Brazil.

Argentina No person can be held criminally responsible for anything done while under the age of 16. A child older than 16 but younger than 18 can only be held criminally responsible where the offence is punishable by deprivation of liberty for more than two years. [Ley 22.278, Regimen Penal de la Minoridad]

Persons under the age of 12 cannot generally be held liable for any criminal offence, but children aged 10 or 11 can be held criminally liable for murder, manslaughter, rape, rape under section 4 of the Criminal Law (Rape) (Amendment) Act 1990 or aggravated sexual assault. Where a child under the age of 14 years is charged with a criminal offence, no further proceedings can be taken without the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions. [Children Act 2001, Section 52(1) and (2); Citizens Information Ireland]

China :people can be held criminally responsible from the age of 16, but children can be held criminally responsible for intentional homicide, intentionally hurting another person so as to cause serious injury of death, rape, robbery, drug-trafficking, arson, explosion or poisoning from the age of 14.

In Somaliland, the Juvenile Justice Law 2007 puts the age of criminal responsibility at 15 and harmonises the provisions of secular, Sharia and customary laws [Reported at 

 Brunei Children older than 7 but younger than 12 can only be held criminally responsible where they have sufficient maturity of understanding to judge the nature and consequences of their actions at the time of the offence.
 
Jordan from to 12 years old.

What is the world average for a child receive responsible?

Is there any significant difference when comparing the continents?

What can explain some patterns found?

Fors instance, while in the Americas the average age is not that different from that of Europe and Asia, there are important cluster of countries inside the continents as those Latin American countries versus North America.
  
a person is not considered “criminally responsible” for his or her behaviour while under the age of 16

can be convicted of a criminal offence, though guardianship or education measures may be taken against younger children

 A child aged 13 to 18 can only be held criminally responsible where he or she acted with discernment
 
Georgia: No person under the age of 14 at the time an alleged offence was committed can be held criminally responsible. The State lowered the minimum age to 12 in 2008, but has since reinstated it at 14.[Criminal Code, Article 80(1)]
 

| Continent   | N      | Mean      | SD       | Min  | Max  | Mode  |
| :-------- | :------ | :-------- | :------- | :----- |:----- | :---- |
| Africa     | 54      | 13  | 2   | 7 | 18  |    14   |
| Americas   | 35      | 14  | 3   |8  | 19  |   18   |
| Asia       | 43       | 13 | 3   |7  | 21  | 12, 14   |
| Europe     | 48       | 14  | 2  | 10 | 18  | 14   |
| Oceania    | 14       | 14  | 1  | 12 | 16  |  14   |

Table: Summary Statistics 

As one can see from the table, the world’s average age 
Nos últimos três anos, roubo, furto e envolvimento com o tráfico de drogas foram as infrações mais comuns praticadas pelos adolescentes. Em 2013, cerca de 40% deles respondiam pela infração de roubo, 3,4% por furto e 23,5% por tráfico. Já os delitos graves, como homicídio, correspondiam a 8,75%; latrocínio – roubo seguido de morte – 1,9%, lesão corporal 0,9% e estupro 1,1%. Entre os estados brasileiros com maior número de adolescentes privados de liberdade, em 2012, estão São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Pernambuco e Ceará. 

Existiam um total de 23, 1 mil adolescentes privados de liberdade no Brasil, em 2013. Desses, 64% (15,2 mil) cumpriam a medida de internação, a mais severa de todas. Segundo as autoras, isso indica que a aplicação das medidas não correspondem com a gravidade dos atos cometidos.

“Para o Estatuto da Criança e do Adolescente, as medidas de internação devem respeitar os princípios da brevidade e da excepcionalidade. Quando olhamos esses dados, observamos que os princípios não são seguidos, se fossem cumpridos, os adolescentes internos seriam aqueles que cometeram infrações graves como homicídios, estupros e latrocínios, apenas 3,2 mil do total, e não 15 mil, como encontramos”, explicou a técnica de Planejamento e Pesquisa Enid Rocha.
